FedEx are going to continue our discussion of the IP addressing by discussing which called cedar or classless interdomain routing
I would still be a little bit more complicated than how classful routing worked
Send Cedar
I will now use an arbitrary linked prefix to designate a particular Network
So we'll do this by using to 32-bit numbers to represent the network and the network number
I'll be composed of the IP address and this 32-bit mask
So
for example
if we have this IP
address
4.0.0 and this mask to 55
0 in binary
we would encode this address as this numbers for this is 12
This is the for than the zero and the zero and we would Reserve
These lower bits essentially the bottom
About 17 bits for house
So we would be able to address
send it to to the 17 host and these upper bits would correspond to the network prefix
So
again
if we took the conjunction of the and between the bits
making up this address and this mask
that would then correspond to what network
we were indexing into and now
we're using an arbitrary length to prefix that Network
So notational in that slash notation
We were at the site
0, / 15 or 12:00
4, / 15,
So this Cedar mechanism is a way that addresses are allocated in a very hierarchical way for the on the internet
And using these prefix has a variable length is really key to making the internet scalable and how many devices can be connected to it
Because the addresses are allocated and contiguous chunks the prefixes
this lets us change the length of those prefixes and not just work with a few classes
So then the
the other important aspect of this prefix that's important is that the routing protocols
and doing packet
forwarding at the data plan
as we've seen is based on these prefix
addresses
So this is how we will figure out
okay
if I need the address to a particular hosts down here
Let's say this 12
It's not quite a host there
so few computers behind there
but I could first start in this network
That's named 12.0
Then I figure out that it's in the 12
250 3.0.0 Network than that
It's a particular subnetwork with the mat Network rights to this
hierarchical design
With these prefixes is how will enable scalability within the internet and that's what the cedar process allows us to do